Welcome back.
Let's try a fun little exercise and before you see my solution try to solve this yourself if we look
at this piece of code based on what we learned about hoisting What do you think it does.
Well here if I just console da log one and run it we get to that makes sense during execution phase.
The very last line was to assign two to one.
So console log one is too confusing but that makes sense.
During hoisting What do you think happens.
Well during hoisting one is simply going to equal on defined.
So when the JavaScript engine sees a second line with the VAR keyword and the same variable assigned
to it it's actually going to just ignore this line that is it's going to say no no no I'm good.
I already have one equals two undefined.
I'm going to just choose to ignore you because we've already assigned one to equal undefined OK.
What about this.
What if I have a function a you know I'm being very creative with my function names here but there with
me I have console log high that's functioning.
And I also have another function a that says by what do you think happens or sorry let's do function
a again.
So we have the exact same functions.
And if I run a here what do you think happens.
Pause and think about with variables.
They're partially hoisted.
So we have undefined to that variable with a function declaration.
We fully hoist it so something gets put in memory during the creation phase but we have two of the same
functions based on what you know about the JavaScript engine that you've learned up until now.
What do you think's gonna happen.
All right enough suspense.
Let's find out you get by.
And that makes sense right.
During the hoisting phase we look at the function.
The compiler says Oh yeah yep I'm going to hoist this and I'm going to put this someplace in memory
for us.
And then it keeps going to the next line and says oh here's functioning again I'm going to put this
in memory.
And because this even though this is the same thing because we're doing it one after another it's going
to rewrite that place in memory to include console log by so that in this case we've lost the ability
to say hi with this function we can only say by this is the case even if I put the A here or even if
I put the A
and I hope by now that makes sense to you.
Now I have one more exercise for you and this is a tricky one because up until now we've talked about
the global execution context in this global execution context has the creation phase and the execution
phase.
But this actually happens any time we call a function anytime we call a function.
There is a creation phase and an execution phase where there's hoisting involved.
Let me show you in the next exercise.